nodejs is a runtime for JS - something that can compile and run JS
that's not a lang or framework, its a runtime that can compiler and run JS
one more thing, we also have some extra things in nodejs that is build on top of V8

most widely used use case of nodejs is to create HTTP server to create backend to talk to frontend
HTTP is the protocol that let frontend and backend communicate

frontend = client
backend = server

client sends HTTP protocol(http/https) with URL and route, headers/cookies, body, method
https://chat.openai.com/backend-api/conversation
https = protocol
chat.openai.com = URL
/backend-api/conversation = route

method can be GET, POST, PUT, DELETE etc.

headers contains general info like user info or cookies

HTTP server recives this request and then sends
1. response headers
2. response body - data to be used by the client with error if any
3. status code - 200(ok), 500(Internal server error)

we can create a HTTP server using express, and its a server means it is backend

nvm = node version manager - to manager diff versions on a machine if diff projects use diff node versions

to install a package - npm install <package_name>

Request methods
1. GET - to fetch some info
2. POST - to save something
3. PUT - to update something
4. DELETE - to delete something

SQL vs NoSQL
Nosql - schemaless means there's no defined tables or no constaints on data type
      - dev can put anytype of data in the table, even add new columns anytype
      - benifit is this supports Array and object datatype - so we can store these for a value
      - the chances of curruption are very high - no very used in real and big projects
      - if you've to build something in very short time, use this as we have no restrictions in this
we can define schema with moongoose but that's at nodejs level, if someone can enter data from somewhere else like mongodbCompass
then that schema is of no use because that was defined at nodejs, that's why scheme should be define in db

sql - we need to first define tables and constaints on datatype
    - very strict
    - no chances of curruption
    - downside - any time we change the schema we need to migrate the database(meaning tell the data to update the schema, its little bit costly)

connection string to connect to db - postgresql://username:password@host/db
in terminal - psql -h <host> -p <port> -u <username> -d <database>

SQL injection
if we run this query
username = req.body.username; 
`SELECT * from users where username = '${username}'`
and if user put its username = ip'; DROP table users; --
the query will become
SELECT * from users where username = 'ip'; DROP table users; -- ' 
anything comes after -- is comment
SELECT * from users where username = 'ip'; DROP table users;
now we don't want that

Parameterized query to prevent sql injection
if we parameterized the query
SELECT * from users where username = $1
and give the parameter are ["ip'; DROP table users; --"]
now first database will identify the type of command which is select, so it will only run select query
at last it will insert the values and query becomes
SELECT * from users where username = "ip'; DROP table users; --";

Postgres
1. superadmin user is postgres(will always available)
2. so if you don't have user or don't know password, always give username = postgres and password = when you were installing postgres
3. psql -u <username> -l  => lists all the databases for that user

Prisma - ORM to query database
disadv of postgresql
1. we've to write queries
2. migration is hard, we've to again write queries to change schema and we cannot log it
3. its a db provider means when we switch to some other provider like mongodb etc., we've to change code 

benifit of prisma
1. we've functions here which implicitly write the queries
2. we can log queries which ran when we execute a functions
3. we can easily migrate using prisma and it logs the migration of the schema
4. its an ORM, means we can switch to other db provider without changing the backend code
5. we've Prisma studio - simple web based GUI to check the tables etc.
6. it gives type safety - if we are using typescript then the response of a query will have the type in it, we don't to explictly define it
   and that gives us autocompletions also
    
setting up prisma with nodejs
1. npm install prisma --save-dev
2. npx prisma init --datasource-provider postgres

if we are doing a validation using zod then we may need its type for the typescript
for that we can use
type schemaType = z.infer<typeof zodSchema>

we've to do the validation in backend because someone can change your request in between

Common Module
lets say we have to validation in backend, for that we've created a zod schema and infer its type
now we want to pass the body from frontend, so there we need to create some type for it
either we created same type as backend or if we can use same zod schema type in frontend too

import zod schema type from backend is not a good thing because we can by mistake import the other things which doesn't run in browser
also we cannot create zod schema in the frontend and import in the backend because some frontend things doesn't run in the node
and if we import in frontend from backend and vice-vesra then it will create  a circular dependency which requires first  to compile the backend and then frontend and then again compile the backend which is not good

so we can create a common module which will be used by both backend and frontend
so we define zod schema type in  common module and import it in both backend and frontend

but we can't really import common module directly using a relative path like
import { loginSchemaType } = require('../../../common/index)
because giving relative path is not a good for a module that is outside of your module

now, we've to push our module to npm (like make it a package)  and then import it in both backend and frontend
when we are creating the common module, its in the typescript and we don't wanna push it
so we compile it and create js files for that and then push our module

when we gonna import the zod schema type from common module(imported using npm), it will say that
the zodSchema type doesn't have a type because the common package(after uploading it to npm and then installing it)
only contains js files and no types, so we've to create a type declaration for the common module
type declaration is file.d.ts  which is used by typescript to know the types of the module
for this to be generated, we've to make 'declaration': true in typescript config
and then simply compile the common module, publish it and again install it and then use it

there's a problem in publishing your module to npm because its gonna expose your code, and we can't do it in the company
so we use monorepo, there are packages like turborepo,  yarn workspaces etc. which allows us to create a monorepo


Imp thing about validation - frontend doesn't really do the validation, it just do top-level checking for the input fields
and it just sends data to backend, so we can do validation using zod in frontend but then if user wants then it can alter the data of the request
so we can't really trust the frontend validation, we've to do it in backend also.